FUNCTIONS:

10. Write a Python function to remove duplicate elements from a list.
12. Write a Python program to find the second largest element in a list.
13. Write a Python program to find the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers.
14. Write a Python program to find the LCM of two numbers.
15. Write a Python program to find the square root of a number using the Newton-Raphson method.
16. Write a Python program to find the sum of the first N natural numbers.
17. Write a Python program to find the sum of digits in a number.
18. Write a Python program to check if a number is a palindrome or not.
19. Write a Python program to find the factorial of a number using a loop.
20. Write a Python program to print the multiplication table of a given number.

DATA TYPES:

21. Write a Python program to convert a string to an integer.
22. Write a Python program to convert a string to a float.
23. Write a Python program to convert a list to a tuple.
24. Write a Python program to convert a tuple to a list.
25. Write a Python program to find the length of a string.
26. Write a Python program to concatenate two strings.
27. Write a Python program to find the intersection of two sets.
28. Write a Python program to find the union of two sets.
29. Write a Python program to sort a list in descending order.
30. Write a Python program to remove all occurrences of a specified element from a list.

OPERATIONAL STATEMENTS:

40. Write a Python program to find the maximum of two numbers using the ternary operator.
42. Write a Python program to calculate the area of a triangle.
43. Write a Python program to calculate the circumference of a circle.
44. Write a Python program to check if a string is a palindrome or not.
46. Write a Python program to find the LCM of two numbers.
47. Write a Python program to find the GCD of two numbers.
48. Write a Python program to reverse a string.
49. Write a Python program to sort a list in ascending order.
50. Write a Python program to remove duplicate elements from a list.

CONDITIONAL STATEMENTS:
51. Write a Python program to check if a number is positive, negative or zero.
52. Write a Python program to check if a number is even or odd.
53. Write a Python program to check if a year is a leap year or not.
54. Write a Python program to find the largest of three numbers.
55. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a palindrome or not.
56. Write a Python program to find the smallest of three numbers.
57. Write a Python program to check if a given number is prime or not.
58. Write a Python program to check if a given number is divisible by 3 or 5.
59. Write a Python program to check if a given character is a vowel or consonant.
60. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a valid email address.
61. Write a Python program to find the sum of all even numbers in a list.
62. Write a Python program to find the sum of all odd numbers in a list.
63. Write a Python program to find the average of a list of numbers.
64. Write a Python program to check if a given number is a perfect square or not.
65. Write a Python program to find the largest prime number less than a given number.
66. Write a Python program to find the roots of a quadratic equation.
67. Write a Python program to find the greatest common divisor (GCD) of three numbers.
68. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a valid password.
69. Write a Python program to find the area of a circle, given the radius.
70. Write a Python program to check if a given number is a palindrome or not using recursion

LOOPING STATEMENTS:

71. Write a Python program to print the numbers from 1 to 10 using a for loop.
72. Write a Python program to print the multiplication table of a given number using a for loop.
73. Write a Python program to find the sum of all the numbers in a list using a for loop.
74. Write a Python program to print the Fibonacci sequence up to a given number using a while loop.
75. Write a Python program to find the factorial of a number using a while loop.
76. Write a Python program to print all the prime numbers within a given range using a for loop.
77. Write a Python program to check if a given number is a palindrome or not using a while loop.
78. Write a Python program to reverse a string using a for loop.
79. Write a Python program to find the sum of all even numbers between two given numbers using a while loop.
80. Write a Python program to count the number of vowels in a given string using a for loop.
81. Write a Python program to find the factorial of a number using a for loop.
82. Write a Python program to find the GCD of two numbers using a for loop.
83. Write a Python program to generate a multiplication table using nested loops.
84. Write a Python program to check if a given number is prime or not using a for loop.
85. Write a Python program to find the sum of all odd numbers between two given numbers using a while loop.
86. Write a Python program to print the sum of digits of a given number using a while loop.
87. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a palindrome or not using a for loop.
88. Write a Python program to find the first n Fibonacci numbers using a for loop.
89. Write a Python program to find the LCM of two numbers using a while loop.
90. Write a Python program to generate a Pascal's triangle using nested loops.

TYPES OF FUNCTIONS:

 91. Write a Python program to find the area of a circle using a user-defined function.
 92. Write a Python program to check if a given number is a perfect number using a user-defined function.
 93. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a valid password using a lambda function.
 94. Write a Python program to sort a list of numbers in ascending order using a built-in function.
 95. Write a Python program to find the sum of two numbers using a recursive function.
 96. Write a Python program to find the LCM of two numbers using a built-in function.
 97. Write a Python program to count the number of vowels in a given string using a map function.
 98. Write a Python program to check if a given number is a prime number using a filter function.
 99. Write a Python program to find the length of the longest word in a given sentence using a reduce function.
 100. Write a Python program to concatenate two lists using a generator function.


 STRINGS:

101. Write a Python program to count the number of occurrences of a character in a given string.
102. Write a Python program to reverse a string using slicing.
103. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a palindrome or not.
104. Write a Python program to capitalize the first letter of each word in a given string.
105. Write a Python program to find the length of the longest word in a given sentence.
106. Write a Python program to concatenate two strings without using the '+' operator.  
107. Write a Python program to remove all the vowels from a given string.
108. Write a Python program to check if a given string contains only digits.
109. Write a Python program to find the most frequent word in a given sentence.
110. Write a Python program to replace all occurrences of a given word in a string with another word.
111. Write a Python program to find the first non-repeating character in a given string.
112. Write a Python program to check if a given string is an anagram of another string.
113. Write a Python program to find the second most frequent character in a given string.
114. Write a Python program to find the common characters between two given strings.
115. Write a Python program to remove all whitespace characters from a given string.
116. Write a Python program to find the index of a given substring in a given string.
117. Write a Python program to check if a given string is a valid email address.
118. Write a Python program to find the largest palindrome substring in a given string.
119. Write a Python program to find the frequency of all characters in a given string.
120. Write a Python program to find the number of words in a given string.

LISTS:

121. Write a Python program to find the sum of all elements in a given list.
122. Write a Python program to find the second largest number in a given list.
123. Write a Python program to find the smallest number in a given list.
124. Write a Python program to remove duplicates from a given list.
125. Write a Python program to reverse a given list.
126. Write a Python program to find the index of a given element in a given list.
127. Write a Python program to find the frequency of all elements in a given list. 
128. Write a Python program to sort a given list in ascending order.
129. Write a Python program to shuffle a given list.
130. Write a Python program to concatenate two lists.
131. Write a Python program to find the maximum and minimum elements in a given list.
132. Write a Python program to remove all even numbers from a given list.
133. Write a Python program to merge two sorted lists into a single sorted list.
134. Write a Python program to find the largest subsequence sum in a given list of integers.
135. Write a Python program to find the first n Fibonacci numbers and store them in a list.
136. Write a Python program to find the common elements between two lists.
137. Write a Python program to find the union of two lists.
138. Write a Python program to find the intersection of two lists.
139. Write a Python program to find the difference between two lists.
140. Write a Python program to find the kth smallest element in a given list.


TUPLES AND DICTIONARIES:

141. Write a Python program to find the length of a given tuple.
142. Write a Python program to reverse a given tuple.
143. Write a Python program to find the maximum and minimum elements in a given tuple.
144. Write a Python program to concatenate two tuples.
145. Write a Python program to convert a tuple to a list.
146. Write a Python program to find the index of a given element in a given tuple.
147. Write a Python program to check if a given element exists in a given tuple.
148. Write a Python program to convert a list of tuples to a list of lists.
149. Write a Python program to sort a given tuple in ascending order.
150. Write a Python program to find the sum of all elements in a given tuple.
151. Write a Python program to find the length of a given dictionary.
152. Write a Python program to concatenate two dictionaries.
153. Write a Python program to check if a given key exists in a given dictionary.
154. Write a Python program to check if a given value exists in a given dictionary.
155. Write a Python program to remove a given key from a given dictionary.
156. Write a Python program to find the maximum and minimum values in a given dictionary.
157. Write a Python program to find the keys with the maximum and minimum values in a given dictionary.
158. Write a Python program to find the frequency of all elements in a given dictionary.
159. Write a Python program to sort a given dictionary by its values.
160. Write a Python program to convert a dictionary to a list of tuples.


FILES:

161. Write a Python program to read a file and display its contents on the screen.
162. Write a Python program to count the number of lines in a file.
163. Write a Python program to count the number of words in a file.
164. Write a Python program to count the number of characters in a file.
165. Write a Python program to copy the contents of one file to another.
166. Write a Python program to write a list of strings to a file.


EXCEPTION HANDLING:

171. Write a Python program to handle a ZeroDivisionError exception.
172. Write a Python program to handle an IndexError exception.
173. Write a Python program to handle a TypeError exception.
174. Write a Python program to handle a ValueError exception.
175. Write a Python program to handle a FileNotFoundError exception.
176. Write a Python program to handle a KeyError exception.
177. Write a Python program to handle a NameError exception.
178. Write a Python program to handle multiple exceptions using a single except block.
179. Write a Python program to raise a custom exception.

